stdaddr: Introduce package for standard addrs. (#2610)
decred/dcrd: internal/staging/stdaddress/README.md

along with whether the type is supported by the staking system, whether it has
an associated `hash160`, and some additional notes and recommendations:

Version 0 Address Type    | Staking? | Hash160? | Notes / Recommendations
--------------------------|----------|----------|----------------------------------
p2pk-ecdsa-secp256k1      |    N     |    N     | Prefer p2pkh in on-chain txns [1]
p2pk-ed25519              |    N     |    N     | Not recommended [2]
p2pk-schnorr-secp256k1    |    N     |    N     | Prefer p2pkh, single party [1,3]
**p2pkh-ecdsa-secp256k1** |  **Y**   |  **Y**   | **Preferred v0 address**
p2pkh-ed25519             |    N     |    Y     | Not recommended [2]
p2pkh-schnorr-secp256k1   |    N     |    Y     | Only use with single party [3]
p2sh                      |    Y     |    Y     | -

Abbreviations:

* p2pk = Pay-to-public-key
* p2pkh = Pay-to-public-key-hash
* p2sh = Pay-to-script-hash

Notes:

- [1] Pay to public key addresses are only recommended for use in sharing public
      keys via off-chain protocols such as multi-party signature creation.  Pay
      to public key hash addresses should be used for on-chain transactions to

>       avoid revealing the public key until absolutely necessary.

Reviewer: Should this be `unless absolutely necessary`?

Author: I used until because it eventually has to be revealed to redeem the funds.  Unless implies, to me at least, that it doesn't necessarily have to ever be revealed which is not the case.

- [2] Version 0 addresses involving Ed25519 are not recommended due to lack of
      support for safe hierarchical derivation and the requirement for a legacy

>       implentation of the curve that has known issues.

Author: Changed.

- [3] Version 0 addresses involving Schnorr signatures are only recommended for
      use with single parties as extra care must be taken when used with

>       multiple parties to avoid potential theft of funds of malicious

Author: Modified.

regular transactions which allow scripts composed of any sequence of opcodes
that evaluate to true.

In order to support this difference, this package provides the `StakeAddress`
interface which is only implemented by the address types that are supported by
the staking system.  This allows callers to determine if an address can be used
in the staking system by type asserting the interface and then making use of the
relevant methods provided by the interface to interact with the staking system.
Refer to the code examples to see this in action as well as the API
documentation of the interface methods for further details.

### Converting Public Key to Public Key Hash Addresses

It is often necessary to share public keys in interactive and manual off-chain
protocols, such as multi-party signature creation.  Since public keys are valid
for any network, it is generally less error prone and more convenient to use
human-readable public key addresses in this case because they ensure the correct
network is involved as well as help prevent entry errors.

However, whenever dealing with on-chain transactions, public key hash addresses

> should typically be used instead to avoid revealing the public key until

Reviewer: Should this be `unless absolutely necessary`?

Author: Same as previous.

absolutely necessary.

> With the aim of supporting easily converting a public key address to a public

Author: ```suggestion
With the aim of supporting easy conversion of a public key address to a public
```

Author: Changed.

key hash address for the cases when the caller already has the former available,
this package provides the `AddressPubKeyHasher` interface which is only
implemented by the public key address types.  This allows callers to determine
if an address can be converted to its public key hash variant by type asserting
the interface and then convert it by making use of the `AddressPubKeyHash`
method provided by the interface.

### Hash160 Use in Addresses

For address types that involve RIPEMD-160 hashes, such as version 0 public key

> hash and script addresses, it can be convenient for callers to extract the

Author: ```suggestion
hash and script hash addresses, it can be convenient for callers to extract the
```

Author: Added.

associated hash.

To enable the hash extraction, this package provides the `Hash160er` interface
which is only implemented by the address types that involve RIPEMD-160 hashes.
This allows callers to determine if an address involves as RIPEMD-160 hash by
type asserting the interface and then extract it by making use of the `Hash160`
method provided by the interface.

## Installation and Updating

This package is internal and therefore is neither directly installed nor needs
to be manually updated.

## Examples

* [DecodeAddress](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/internal/staging/stdaddress#example-DecodeAddress)

  Demonstrates decoding addresses, generating their payment scripts and
  associated script versions, determining supported capabilities by checking if
  interfaces are implemented, obtaining the associated underlying hash160 for
  addresses that support it, converting public key addresses to their public key

>   hash variant, and generating stake-related scripts for addresses those that

Author: Removed.
